README.md, before:

# Alura Side

## 🛠️ This project is part of this [Alura course.](https://cursos.alura.com.br/formacao-flutter)

## ✔️ Techniques and Technologies

**What was built-in and/or used during Alura's Course** :
- `API`: What it is and how an API works in the internet;
- `http`: What HTTP is and its counterpart in Dart language;
- `async/await`: How to use `async` and `await` for asynchronous requests;
- `interceptors`: What interceptors are and how to use them aligned with HTTP;
- `logger`: For better visualisation of console and easier debugging;

## 🔨 Starting Project
![Alura Project](https://github.com/alura-cursos/flutter_webapi_first_course/raw/main/gif01.gif)

# Changes I have made to this project

## REST API

- Instead of using Node.js JSON-SERVER application to initiate a Fake Rest API, I did what I'd been planning all this time: build a basic REST API using GoLang. 
    - It's surprisingly more than decent for this project. I recreated the [baby project](https://github.com/RickHPotter/fake_rest_api) with the help of [this Laith Academy's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_L64KT3SFM&ab_channel=LaithAcademy), which led me to build [this REST Api of my own.](https://github.com/RickHPotter/flutter_rest_api)

## LOGIC

- Refactored `journal.toJson()` and created `Journal.toJournal()` and `Journal.toListOfJournals()` static methods to make JSON parsing easier.

- Changed the whole logic of home_screen_list.dart:
    - The app name was an insight due to this layout. You can only create new entries in the last 7 days. Therefore 'Sept Jours'.
    - The most recent days are shown first.
    - I made it possible to have multiple diary entries in a single day.
    - Fixed the problem of `DateTime.difference()` by using someone else's snippet code `diffInDays()`.
    - `CreatedAt` is never changed, but `UpdatedAt` is, as it should
    
- Added [SQFLite](https://pub.dev/packages/sqflite) database for locally storing journal entries (I had problems trying to generate a objectbox file, so I went backwards to SQFLite).
    - HomeScreen is loaded using SQL SELECT instead of HTTP GET.
    - CUD operations start with Databases and only proceed to go to API when the API_Button is pressed.
    - Added an API_Button to merge DB and API contents.
       - What's in the local DB that's not in the API is sent.
       - What's only in the API is sent back to the DB. Hash, ([UUID](https://pub.dev/packages/uuid)-generated), being PRIMARY KEY, will take care of duplicates.

- Refactored out of AddJournalScreen a Widget that's used by AddJournalScreen, EditJournalScreen and ViewJournalScreen.
    - Remodelled 'add-journal' screen.
        - Added `db.prepareForInsert()`.
    - Added an 'edit-journal' screen.
        - Added patch request updating both `json:content` and `json:updatedAt`.
        - Added `db.prepareForUpdate()`.
    - TODO: Added a 'view-journal' screen.
        - ?

## THEME

- Added colour differentiation for helpers/weekday.dart.
 
- Added [Slidable](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_slidable) Widget.
    - Options are 'Edit' and 'Delete'.

- Added [QuickAlert](https://pub.dev/packages/quickalert) for `prepareForDelete()`, onPressed: () { `refreshFromDb()`; }, and onPressed: () { `retrieveFromApi()`; }

- TODO: Add colour dots to display on top right of Journal Cards.
    - Green is for updated both DB and API. Orange/Red is to be merged with the API.

- Added a Side Menu using [Shrink Side Menu](https://pub.dev/packages/shrink_sidemenu). It doesn't seem as smooth when changing tabs, but this will do.
    - HomeScreen() only offering 7 days. If you want to write on a day that's more distant than 7 days then I can only assume that day did not mean shit to you.
    - TODO: Overview() which will have every journal entry so far in block-like galleries and when you click on them, it's a read-only view.
    - TODO: About(), about me, of course, and credits.

- DOING: Trying to create a new icon that doesn't suck. Using [FlutterLauncherIcons](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_launcher_icons). 

# Changes I'll make in the future

- More refactoring.
- Add Locale.

## 🏠 Endgame
![My Project](https://github.com/RickHPotter/flutter_webapi_1/gif.gif)

Commit message:

more improvements to theme and both struct and db adding id (checker) and title, we're almost there

README.md, after:

# Alura Side

## 🛠️ This project is part of this [Alura course.](https://cursos.alura.com.br/formacao-flutter)

## ✔️ Techniques and Technologies

**What was built-in and/or used during Alura's Course** :
- `API`: What it is and how an API works in the internet;
- `http`: What HTTP is and its counterpart in Dart language;
- `async/await`: How to use `async` and `await` for asynchronous requests;
- `interceptors`: What interceptors are and how to use them aligned with HTTP;
- `logger`: For better visualisation of console and easier debugging;

## 🔨 Starting Project
![Alura Project](https://github.com/alura-cursos/flutter_webapi_first_course/raw/main/gif01.gif)

# Changes I have made to this project

## REST API

- Instead of using Node.js JSON-SERVER application to initiate a Fake Rest API, I did what I'd been planning all this time: build a basic REST API using GoLang. 
    - It's surprisingly more than decent for this project. I recreated the [baby project](https://github.com/RickHPotter/fake_rest_api) with the help of [this Laith Academy's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d_L64KT3SFM&ab_channel=LaithAcademy), which led me to build [this REST Api of my own.](https://github.com/RickHPotter/flutter_rest_api)

## LOGIC

- Changed original `Journal.id` to `Journal.hash`, added `Journal.id` and `Journal.title`.
    - `Journal.id` became a checker. 0 is for updated both in the DB and the API, 1 is for Insert-Mode, 2 is for Update-Mode, -1 is for Delete-Mode.
    - `Journal.hash` is the original id automatically created using ([UUID](https://pub.dev/packages/uuid).
    - `Journal.title` is as it says, the Title.

- Refactored `journal.toJson()` and created `Journal.toJournal()` and `Journal.toListOfJournals()` static methods to make JSON parsing easier.

- Changed the whole logic of home_screen_list.dart:
    - The app name was an insight due to this layout. You can only create new entries in the last 7 days. Therefore 'Sept Jours'.
    - The most recent days are shown first.
    - I made it possible to have multiple diary entries in a single day.
    - Fixed the problem of `DateTime.difference()` by using someone else's snippet code `diffInDays()`.
    - `CreatedAt` is never changed, but `UpdatedAt` is, as it should
    
- Added [SQFLite](https://pub.dev/packages/sqflite) database for locally storing journal entries (I had problems trying to generate a objectbox file, so I went backwards to SQFLite).
    - HomeScreen is loaded using SQL SELECT instead of HTTP GET.
    - CUD operations start with Databases and only proceed to go to API when the API_Button is pressed.
    - Added an API_Button to merge DB and API contents.
       - What's in the local DB that's not in the API is sent.
       - What's only in the API is sent back to the DB. Hash, ([UUID](https://pub.dev/packages/uuid)-generated), being PRIMARY KEY, will take care of duplicates.

- Refactored out of AddJournalScreen a Widget that's used by AddJournalScreen, EditJournalScreen and ViewJournalScreen.
    - Remodelled 'add-journal' screen.
        - Added `db.prepareForInsert()`.
    - Added an 'edit-journal' screen.
        - Added patch request updating both `json:content` and `json:updatedAt`.
        - Added `db.prepareForUpdate()`.
    - TODO: Added a 'view-journal' screen.
        - ?

## THEME

- Added colour differentiation for helpers/weekday.dart.
 
- Added [Slidable](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_slidable) Widget.
    - Options are 'Edit' and 'Delete'.

- Added [QuickAlert](https://pub.dev/packages/quickalert) for `prepareForDelete()`, onPressed: () { `refreshFromDb()`; }, and onPressed: () { `retrieveFromApi()`; }

- Add colour dots to display on top right of Journal Cards.
    - Green is for updated both DB and API. Orange/Red is to be merged with the API.

- Added a Side Menu using [Shrink Side Menu](https://pub.dev/packages/shrink_sidemenu). It doesn't seem as smooth when changing tabs, but this will do.
    - HomeScreen() only offering 7 days. If you want to write on a day that's more distant than 7 days then I can only assume that day did not mean shit to you.
    - TODO: Overview() which will have every journal entry so far in block-like galleries and when you click on them, it's a read-only view.
    - TODO: About(), about me, of course, and credits.

- DOING: Trying to create a new icon that doesn't suck. Using [FlutterLauncherIcons](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_launcher_icons). 

# Changes I'll make in the future

- More refactoring.
- Add Locale.

## 🏠 Endgame
![My Project](https://github.com/RickHPotter/flutter_webapi_1/gif.gif)
